number thirteen proved to be lucky for
the organizers of the competition and
for Igor oyster who managed to reach
paws 9 at a very last moment transferred
from Brno in Czechoslovakia onboard of a
military helicopter forced to continue
his strange journey by a special car
during to the rapidly dilapidating
weather conditions he arrived at his
hotel soon before the opening concert in
which he was scheduled to perform
he played pure track off skis violin
concerto accompanied by the Posner
Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by
Tchaikovsky
this time however a tenor try cos they
also played on Vietnam PhD by Matisse
Roth College and third symphony by Carol
Romano's it was the 13th of November
vii vanevski competition marked the
Silver Jubilee of the competition in
Poznan and eager oyster celebrated the
25th anniversary of winning the first
prize after the opening evening the
great violinist sat on the jury which
was again chaired by Professor Elena de
bisca 46 participants from 16 countries
were admitted to the competition
two-thirds were men they also dominated
the final stage quantitatively by 8 to 3
and qualitatively as well they would win
almost all the prizes
ladies and gentlemen and verification of
the score we wish to present the names
of Prize winners of the seventh Henry
VIII Nevsky the highest trophy fell to
the 27 year-old budding Brodsky of Kiev
he also received the prize for the best
performance of concerto in d minor by
the patron of the competition a few
years later
Brodsky moved to Poland and still
sometime later was granted polish
citizenship
the second prize was shared by me Haman
of the Soviet Union
and Piazza malevsky who represented
Poland and Posner professor at Riga Cali
shefket student he was also awarded the
prize for the best performance of Henan
vinius Concerto in F sharp minor
I completely cannot listen to my pupils
my students and remain objective in
general I'm very emotional about it I'd
rather play myself than listen to
anybody that's what I feel I can't help
it in class a tutor can do absolutely
everything with a student everything
that comes to his mind however a tutor
who has to listen to his student perform
is forced to realize that he can no
longer change anything in his delivery
even though he would feel like saying no
here and there it's immaterial how one
plays at home or in various other places
and situations what counts is the very
moment when he is being judged such as
life unfortunately
one of the first persons to congratulate
the prizewinners was Christian Zimmerman
who observed the final stage of the
competition two years earlier he had won
the Shopper competition in Warsaw
you
to third prices were shared by zaharan
of Novosibirsk in the Soviet Union who
was also awarded the prize for the best
performance of Sherman Oaks his concerto
and an American
Peter's a zovsky was the audience's and
particularly its Farah parts favors
Poznan Poland and Vinnie offski these
words found a permanent place in the
life of isaku Nishi winner of one of two
distinctions
soon after the competition she swapped
her Tokyo address for one in Poznan and
added a second element Yun coughs car to
her name her heart chose the son of
Helen ayan Kafka a competition
interpreter